nvcachetools

Extract and inspect compiled shaders for Nvidia GPUs from the shader cache
created by Geforce driver software

nvcachedec - Unpack shader objects from Nvidia GPU driver GLCache files

nvucdump - Extract sections from NVuc object file

These tools have been tested with the results of Vulkan and OpenGL programs run
on FreeBSD, Linux, and Windows systems.

The tools have been tested on outputs of drivers with major version numbers:
  390, 470, 510.

NVuc microcode files may be directly disassembled with Nvidia's "nvdisasm" tool
which understands their format.

Sections may also be extracted from NVuc files using nvucdump.  The shader
microcode section may then be disassembled with "nvdisasm" (--binary option),
or with "envydis" from the envytools project for a more limited selection of
GPU architectures.

Example

  env __GL_SHADER_DISK_CACHE_PATH=$PWD/glcache program
  nvcachedec glcache/GLCache/*/*/*.toc objs
  nvdisasm objs/object00000.nvuc
  nvucdump objs/object00000.nvuc sections
  nvdisasm --binary SM50 sections/section4_0001.bin
  envydis -i -mgm107 sections/section4_0001.bin

See the sources for details of the usage of each tool.

The tool programs have been created strictly by inspecting the structure of
data files placed into the user's home directory by Nvidia Geforce software as
a result of executing free and open programs which utilize the GPU.  No Nvidia
software has been modified, disassembled, decompiled, reverse engineered,
subjected to live debugging or otherwise inspected in the creation of any of
the aforementioned programs.

"Nvidia" and "Geforce" are trademarks of Nvidia Corporation, used without
permission in the documentation and source text comments of the programs for
informational purposes only.  The programs are created neither by nor in
cooperation with Nvidia Corporation or any of its representatives.


Copyright 2022 Theron Tarigo

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

